Bundle index image initial commit (#132)
operator-framework/olm-docs: content/en/docs/Concepts/crds/bundleIndexImage.md

---
title: "Bundle Index Image"

> weight: 3

Reviewer: is not missing the description?

description: >

>     Bundle index image example and references

Reviewer 2: Description is supposed to describe WHAT exactly this document is going to enumerate. This just looks like the statement in `title` with just a couple of more words sprinkled after it.

> 
> 
> A bundle is an operator packaging construct which contains an operator definition and manifests which ultimately determine how the operator is deployed onto a Kubernetes cluster. Bundles are the preferred mechanism within OLM going forward to package and deploy Operators. Operator developers are encouraged to use the Bundle format over PackageManifests.

Reviewer 3: Is the `PackageManifest` format deprecated upstream, or only downstream? If so, we may want to shout out that out, else we can remove that update from the following suggestion:

```suggestion
A bundle is an operator packaging construct that contains an operator definition and the list of manifests needed to determine how the operator will be deployed onto a Kubernetes cluster. Bundles are the preferred mechanism within OLM going forward to package and deploy Operators. Operator developers are encouraged to use the Bundle format over the deprecated PackageManifests format.
```

> To build an Operator index image, we must first have an Operator that is ready to be deployed. To create an Operator, we can use `operator-sdk` to scaffold your Operator and construct your Operator. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To build an Operator index image, we must first have an Operator that is ready to be deployed. To create an Operator, we can use `operator-sdk` to scaffold and construct your Operator. 
```

> Once your Operator is built, the resultant code is built into a container image. If you use [Operator SDK](https://sdk.operatorframework.io/docs/) to build your Operator, it contains a `Makefile` that you can use to build and push your Operator image. You can use one of the following commands to create and push an image on your Operator registry:

Reviewer 4: Remove the word resultant

Once your Operator is built, the code is built into a container image. If you use [Operator SDK](https://sdk.operatorframework.io/docs/) to build your Operator, it contains a `Makefile` that you can use to build and push your Operator image. To create and push your Operator's image to a registry, use the following command:

> 

Reviewer 2: See this doc for more details on what an operator bundle is: https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-registry/blob/master/docs/design/operator-bundle.md

```
make docker-build docker-push IMG=<registry>/<username>/sample-operator:vX.X.X
```

### Building the Operator Bundle Image

For an Operator to be deployed it has to be bundled. We can create the Bundle using one of the following command:
```

> make bundle IMG=<registry>/<username>/sample-operator:vX.X.X

Reviewer 2: Have you tried this locally? I'm not sure this will work. 

Also, this doc should enumerate how to build an operator bundle with opm+other registry clients. 

Using the make target is appropriate for a code repo, not a documentation site.

> The `make bundle` command also creates a Dockerfile (bundle.Dockerfile) which is used to build a "bundle image." The bundle image is an [OCI](https://github.com/opencontainers/image-spec) image that essentially holds the generated on-disk bundle manifest and metadata files.`

Reviewer 3: We should also remove that trailing "`".

```suggestion
The `make bundle` command also creates a Dockerfile, named bundle.Dockerfile, which is used to build a bundle image. The bundle image is an [OCI](https://github.com/opencontainers/image-spec) image that holds the generated on-disk bundle manifest and metadata files.
```

The `make bundle` command also creates a Dockerfile, named bundle.Dockerfile, which is used to build a bundle image. The bundle image is an [OCI](https://github.com/opencontainers/image-spec) image that holds the generated on-disk bundle manifest and metadata files.

> ### Building the Operator Index Image

Reviewer 2: The topics in the rest of the document sound like `Tasks`, why do we want to include them under `Concepts`?

Another OLM concept is the "index image", which is like a catalog of Operators. This container image acts to serve an application programming interface (API) which describes information about your sample operator and others in the catalog. An index image, based on the Operator Bundle Format, is a containerized snapshot of a catalog. It is an immutable artifact that contains the database of pointers to a set of Operator manifest content. A catalog can reference an index image to source its content for OLM on the cluster. 

#### Creating an index image:

> 1. The index image includes information from your bundle image by running an operator-registry command, opm, as follows:

Reviewer 4: Please replace the following wording as follows: 
The index image includes information from your bundle image by running the operator-registry command by using the opm command as follows:

```
opm index add --bundles <registry>/<username>/sample-operator-bundle:vX.X.X --tag <registry>/<username>/sample-operator-index:vX.X.X --binary-image <registry_base_image>
```

> - Comma-separated list of bundle images to add to the index.

Reviewer 4: The wording should slightly change to read:
The command will output a comma seperated list of bundle images to add to the index.

Author: These are actually the inputs that are comma separated

- The image tag that you want the index image to have.
- Optional: An alternative registry base image to use for serving the catalog.

> 2. Push the index image to a registry:
> ```
> docker push <registry>/<username>/sample-operator-index:vX.X.X
> ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Push the index image to a registry:

```bash
docker push <registry>/<username>/sample-operator-index:vX.X.X
```
```

> The index image holds a sqlite database with bundle definitions, it also runs a grpc service when the image is executed. The grpc service lets consumers query the sqlite database for information about the operators this index contains.

Reviewer 5: I don't think we should advertise that it is a sqlite database. There were some discussions on the fact that it isn't a public api and we don't want people manipulating it.

```suggestion
The index image holds a database with bundle definitions, it also runs a gRPC service when the image is executed. The gRPC service lets consumers query the database for information about the operators contained in the index.
```

> You can download the opm command from the [operator-registry](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-registry) repository.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
You can download the `opm` command from the [operator-registry](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-registry) repository.
```

#### Creating a catalog from an index image

> Create a CatalogSource object that references your index image. Modify the following to your specifications and save it as a catalogSource.yaml file:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Create a CatalogSource object that references your index image. Modify the following to your specifications and save it as a `catalogSource.yaml` file:
```

```yaml
kind: CatalogSource
metadata:
  name: sample-operator
  namespace: operators
spec:
  sourceType: grpc
  image: <registry>:<port>/<namespace>/sample-operator-index:vX.X.X
  displayName: My Operator Catalog
  publisher: <publisher_name> 
  updateStrategy:
    registryPoll: 
      interval: 30m
```

- Specify your index image
- Specify your name or an organization name publishing the catalog
- Catalog sources can automatically check for new versions to keep up to date

> Now we have to apply this yaml file to the kubernetes cluster:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Now we have to apply this yaml file to the Kubernetes cluster:
```

> ```
> kubectl apply -f catalogSource.yaml
> ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```bash
kubectl apply -f catalogSource.yaml
```
```

> This CatalogSource is created in an existing namespace by OLM named operators on OpenShift clusters. This namespace is called operators. When you create the CatalogSource, it causes the index image to be executed as a Pod. You can view it as follows:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
On OpenShift clusters, the CatalogSource is created by OLM in an existing namespace named `operators`. When you create the CatalogSource, it causes the index image to be executed as a Pod. You can view it as follows:
```

> ​This CatalogSource is created in an existing namespace, created by OLM, named operators; on OpenShift clusters, this namespace is called openshift-operators. When you create the CatalogSource, it causes the index image to be executed as a Pod. You can view it as follows:

Reviewer 4: Please update and replace commas so it reads clear such as:
This CatalogSource is created in an existing namespace by OLM named operators on OpenShift clusters. This namespace is called openshift-operators. When you create the CatalogSource, it causes the index image to be executed as a Pod. You can view it as follows:

```
kubectl -n operators get pod --selector=olm.catalogSource=sample-operator
```

#### Updating an index image

> After configuring OperatorHub to use a catalog source that references a custom index image that cluster administrators can keep the available Operators on their cluster up to date by adding bundle images to the index image.

Reviewer 5: Did you mean OperatorHub? Nowhere else do you mention OperatorHub. So did the steps we executed put our image in OperatorHub? This statement is confusing.

Reviewer 5: How would I configure OperatorHub? There should be a link to the document for this.

> After configuring OperatorHub to use a catalog source that references a custom index image, cluster administrators can keep the available Operators on their cluster up to date by adding bundle images to the index image.

Reviewer 4: Please remove the comma so flows like:
a custom index image that cluster administrators can keep the available Operators on their cluster up to date by adding bundle images to the index image.

```
opm index add --bundles <registry>/<namespace>/<new_bundle_image>:<tag> --from-index <registry>/<namespace>/<existing_index_image>:<tag> --tag <registry>/<namespace>/<existing_index_image>:<tag> 
```

> - A comma-separated list of additional bundle images to add to the index.

Reviewer 4: Please add the following:
This command when run will output and generate the following:
* A comma seperated list of additional bundle images to to the index

Author: Done!

> - The existing index that was previously pushed.

Reviewer 4: * The existing index that was previously pushed

- The image tag that you want the updated index image to have

> <br><br>

Reviewer 3: We may want to avoid inlining HTML like this. This PR is failing the netlify preview so I'm not entirely sure what this will look like once this renders out.

> - The image tag that you want the updated index image to have.

Reviewer 4: * The image tag that you want the updated index image to have

Author: I have applied all the changes

> For more references on Bundle Indices please read [OpenShift docs](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.6/operators/admin/olm-managing-custom-catalogs.html#olm-managing-custom-catalogs-bundle-format-prereqs) and this [blog](https://www.redhat.com/en/blog/deploying-operators-olm-bundles)

Reviewer 5: It's weird to link to the OpenShift documentation from this upstream project. Are bundle indices not documented upstream?

Reviewer 6: +1, we shouldn't have any mention of openshift at all in this docs page

Author: Please suggest any other source. I was not able to find any other good reference

Reviewer 6: https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-registry#building-an-index-of-operators-using-opm
